#ListView

A very common UI pattern for displaying a group of related data is to show that data in a vertically scrolling list. To achieve this type of list display, you would use a ListView. The Android ListView is a special type of view group known as an AdapterView. Unlike other view groups where the views contained within are all determined via a layout file, such is the case with LinearLayout, an AdapterView creates its views on the fly based off the data contained within an adapter.

When using a ListView in your app, there are four components that we need to focus on: the ListView which will be used to show the list of data, the list item layout which will represent each row in the list, the collection of data to show in the list, and the adapter which hooks everything up. We'll go into each of these below with the exception of the adapter since that will be covered more in a later lesson.

*Note: In this lesson, you'll see a class called ArrayAdapter being used. For more on this and other types of adapters, see the section on adapter events and callbacks. For now, think of adapters as factories that take in a collection of data and return a list of views that represent that data.*

## Components

###List XML Resource
Defining a ListView in XML is just as easy as defining any other view element. Declare a new ListView using the &lt;ListView /&gt; tag and assign it an ID, layout height, and layout width. The key thing to keep in mind with a list is how it looks on the screen. On phones, or any narrow device, lists usually take up the full width of the screen. Also, if the core focus of a particular screen is the contents of the list, it's common to make the list the full height of the screen as well and not have any additional UI elements in your layout. As with any layout element, the size and position of your list will depend on what you're trying to accomplish with your UI, but these are just some general guidelines.

###Item XML Resource
The list item layout is the layout file that will specify how each row in your list will look. You can use just about any layout file you want for the list items, but there are a few guidelines you should follow. First of all, don't put any scrolling containers in your list items. A ListView is already a scrolling container and nesting scrollable containers can lead to the layout inflater throwing exceptions at best or creating layouts with inconsistent or broken scrolling behaviors at worst. Another thing to keep in mind is that list items are clickable. This means that you should never add elements to a list item that are also clickable. Nesting clickable items can lead to confusing experiences for the user. On the topic of clicks, Google recommends that all clickable UI controls are at least 48dp by 48dp in order for them to be easily clickable. Keep that in mind when creating your list items.

The last thing to keep in mind with list items is the amount of content shown. If your list item is showing text, you should not be showing more than three lines worth of text and not all lines should be the same size (more on this in the List Items resource below). In addition to text, it's common to show an image on list items. If the image is descriptive of the list item contents, the image should be left aligned. If the image is more of an extra decoration or minor content descriptor, it should be right aligned. List items should never have arrows that point to the right on them. Using arrows at the end of list items is a common design feature on iOS but isn't on the Android platform. Be sure to keep your platform in mind when designing a layout.